#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy
= skylium.cfg file description =

There are several settings for Skylium that are read during Skylium::init(). The config file should be placed in a main directory (where the main.cpp is located) and named *skylium.cfg*. The possible variables are:
<ul>
<li> *tellmeabout* - configures the output verbosity. Possible settings are: everything, constructors, all_constructors, destructors, params, all_params, shaders, buffer, warnings, errors. Default:
{{{
tellmeabout warnings,errors
}}}
</li>
<li> *using_vbo* - if true, skylium will load _some_ meshes into the GPU buffer (VBO), if false - rendering data will be taken from RAM, what is much slower. Objects that are in VBO have their copy in RAM.
{{{
using_vbo true
}}}
</li>
<li> *min_vbo_size* - if a single mesh is smaller, it will be not loaded into VBO. Some graphic cards prefers different settings than others. Data is given in bytes. Default:
{{{
min_vbo_size 256
}}}
</li>
<li> *max_vbo_size* - specifies the maximum size of a single mesh to be loaded into VBO. It does _not_ define the maximum size of memory that will be located on GPU's buffer. Default value is 256 MB:
{{{
max_vbo_size 268435456
}}}
</li>
<li> *fullscreen* - there's probably nothing to explain. True/false. Default:
{{{
fullscreen false
}}}
</li>
<li> *hud_exists* - if true, hud exists. If false, hud still exists, but can't be showed - to be fixed soon. Default:
{{{
hud_exists true
}}}
</li>
<li> *mouse_visible* - if true, the mouse pointer will be showed - useful in debugging. Default:
{{{
mouse_visible true
}}}
</li>
<li> *gl_size* - minimum size of each buffer for the Skylium to be started. If the graphics card does not support that many bytes, Skylium won't start. Otherwise, OpenGL will use as many bytes as the graphics card supports.
{{{
gl_red_size 8
gl_green_size 8
gl_blue_size 8
gl_depth_size 24
}}}
</li>
<li> *opengl_version* - defines the OpenGL version to be initialized. Note, that versions >2.1 are not supported really well yet - Skylium will work, but using some deprecated functions.
{{{
opengl_version 2 1
}}}
</li>
<li> *create_mipmaps* - if true, Skylium will generate mipmaps.
{{{
create_mipmaps true
}}}
</li>
</ul>